Robin Hood was born in the forest, and the forest was his home for much
of his life. His story is hundreds of years old. At that time, in England,
many Saxon people lived in small villages on the lands of important
Norman lords (from Normandy, now in France). Other people lived on
church lands. Life was hard for these villagers because they had to give
money and food to their lord and to the church.
So village people loved to hear stories about Robin Hood. Robin
Hood was clever, strong and brave. He loved adventure, and he was the
best fighter in England. He took money from rich people and gave it to
the poor villagers.
The most famous Robin Hood stories are in this book. They are about
beautiful Lady Marian, the greedy Sheriff of Nottingham, good King
Richard, and his bad brother, Prince John.
Many countries have stories about brave and clever adventurers. But is
Robin Hood only a story? Perhaps Robin really did live, and perhaps
not. There was a King Richard; he was king from 1189 to 1199. He left
England and fought in Jerusalem. When he was away, Prince John was
the most important man in England. Then, when Richard died, John was
the next king.
The stories say that Robin Hood lived with his men in Sherwood
Forest, near the town of Nottingham. Sherwood Forest and Nottingham
are about two hundred kilometres north of London. Many people there
say that Robin Hood really lived in the forest.
Chapter 1
Robin Fitzooth is Born in Sherwood Forest
The Robin Hood stories are very famous. Most people know that Robin
lived in Saxon and Norman times. He robbed rich people and gave the
money to poor people. But not everybody knows that he came from a
rich family. And not many people know that Robin Hood was halfSaxon and half-Norman. The story begins with Robin Hood's Saxon grandfather, Sir* George
Gamwell. Gamwell lived near a Norman lord*. This lord wanted to take
Gamwell's house and his lands. The two men fought, and the Norman
lord killed Gamwell's two sons. Gamwell's wife also died.
But Sir George also had a young daughter, Joanna.
‘I have no sons,’ Gamwell said to Joanna. ‘So I will teach you to
fight with a sword, and with a bow and arrow.’
Five years later, Joanna was nineteen years old and very beautiful.
One day, a young man visited Sir George. His name was William
Fitzooth, and he was a Norman.
‘Sir George,’ he began, ‘I love your daughter. I hope that she loves
me. I would like to marry her. I have money and land…’
But Sir George was very angry.
‘Never!’ he answered. ‘My daughter will never marry you. Get off
my land. Do not come here again or I will kill you!’
Joanna loved this young man. So she tried to talk to her father, but he
didn't want to listen.
Sir, Lord, Lady: Important men had the words Sir or Lord before their names;
important women had the word Lady. ‘Go to your room!’ he shouted. ‘I do not want to hear that man's
name again.’
That night, William came back to Sir George's home. He stood under
Joanna's window and called to her. Joanna took . some clothes and came
quietly out of the house.
William took her hand. ‘Will you come with me and marry me?’ he
asked. ‘We cannot live in my home because your father's men will look
for you there. So we will live in the green forest.’
‘I am sorry for my father,’ Joanna said sadly, ‘but I love you. I know
you are a good man. I will marry you.’
In the morning, Sir George woke late. He called to his men, ‘Where
is my daughter ? I want to speak to her.’
But Joanna was nowhere in the house.
Sir George was very angry, then very sad.
‘I have no family now,’ he thought.One fine day in April, a year later, a man came to the house.
‘Your daughter sent me here,’ he said. ‘She wants you to come and
see her.’
Sir George followed the man to the middle of Sherwood Forest.
There, in the spring sunshine, he saw his daughter. He also saw a baby
boy in her arms. Joanna looked up at her father and smiled.
‘This is Robin, your grandson,’ she said.
She gave the baby to her father. Sir George wanted to be angry, but
he was very happy with his grandson in his arms.
‘Robin? Is that your name?’ he said. ‘Well, little Robin, I wanted to
kill your father but that is not possible now. Please, daughter, come
with your husband and live near me. Let's forget the past.’
‘We will come and live near you, father,’ said Joanna. ‘But I will
often bring my son to the forest. I will teach him to find his way in the forest in the day and at night. He will learn to make arrows
for his bow, and to catch forest animals. He will make a ire and cook the
meat. The forest will always be his second home.’ Robin's grandfather died, then his mother and father. After twenty-five
years, Robin was lord of Gamwell and Locksley, and lived in his father's
home, Locksley House.
The village people liked Robin Fitzooth.
‘He is a good man,’ they said. ‘No man, woman or child is hungry on
Robin of Locksley's lands.’
Not all lords were so kind. The worst person was the greedy Sheriff
of Nottingham. The sheriff took everything from the villagers, and often
these poor people were very hungry. Robin listened carefully to the
stories about the sheriff. He sent food and clothes to the poorest
families.At about this time, people began to tell stories about a robber. They
called him Robin Hood.
‘The sheriff is a hard man,’ they said. ‘He and his rich friends take
everything from us. But now brave Robin Hood and his men rob rich
people and give their money to poor villagers!’
In those days, the Great North Road went through Sherwood Forest.
Robin Hood's men often stopped rich men in the forest, and took their
money. Sometimes Prince John's men also used the road. So Robin
Hood robbed him too.
‘The forest is on your land,’ said Prince John to the sheriff. ‘Why
don't you catch and kill this robber?’ ‘It is not so easy,’ answered the sheriff. ‘The village people don't
want to tell me much. They say only that the robbers live in or near
Sherwood Forest. But they know more than they say. I have a plan to
learn more about this man Robin Hood.’
‘What is your plan?’ asked the prince.
‘It is this,’ answered the sheriff. ‘Robin of Locksley lives near
Sherwood Forest. Tonight there is going to be a great party at Locksley
House. I know that Fitzooth will invite the village people on his land. So
I will send one of my men. He can wear village clothes and ask
questions about “good” Robin Hood, “the people's friend”. When I
know more about this Robin, I can catch him.’
That evening, there were a lot of people at Locksley House. There
was food and drink for the villagers, and there was dancing and singing.
Everybody was very happy. And Robin was the happiest person there,
because he and the lovely Lady Marian Fitzwalter planned to marry the
next day.
The sheriff's man turned to a villager next to him.
‘I often hear the name Robin Hood,’ he said. ‘Who is he ? Does he
live near here ?’
The man laughed. ‘Don't you know, friend? Robin Fitzooth is Robin
Hood!’
The sheriff's man quickly left Locksley House and went to his lord.
‘This is better than I hoped,’ said the sheriff. ‘Tomorrow, Robin
Fitzooth will marry Lady Marian at St Mary's Abbey. But my men will
stop him and bring him to me. Prince John will kill him and give me
Fitzooth's money and lands. Lady Marian's family is also rich. She will
not marry Robin, so perhaps I will marry her. Yes, tomorrow will be a
great day for me!’ Chapter 3 At St Mary's Abbey
At 10 o'clock the next morning, Robin Fitzooth and Lady Marian stood
in front of the abbot in St Mary's Abbey. Lady Marian was some years
younger than Robin, and very lovely. She wore a white dress, and her
long hair was the colour of the forest trees in autumn.
The abbot began to speak.
‘Robin of Locksley,’ he began ‘do you ...’
‘Stop!’ somebody called from the back of the church. Robin turned.
It was the Sheriff of Nottingham. Behind the sheriff were twenty men
with bows and arrows.
‘My Lord Abbot,’ called the sheriff loudly. ‘This man has to come
with me. He is the robber, Robin Hood!’ Then he turned to his men.
‘Why are you waiting?’ he asked. ‘Take him!’
‘Yes, I am Robin Hood,’ answered Robin, ‘but you will not take me.
Look carefully round the church, Sheriff. Do you not see my men?’
The sheriff looked and saw thirty or more tall, strong men.
The abbot was angry and afraid. ‘What are you doing?’ he shouted.
‘Will you fight in a church ?’
‘This man has to come with me,’ said the sheriff again. ‘Give me
your sword, Robin Hood, and come quietly. The good abbot does not
want you to fight!’
Robin walked slowly to the sheriff.
‘Here you are, my Lord,’ he said - and hit the sheriff hard on the
head with the top of his sword. The sheriff fell back.
‘Outside! Everybody outside!’ shouted Robin.
His men pushed the sheriff's men back through the church door. A
great fight began outside the abbey.
Robin spoke quickly to Marian.
‘We can fight and win today,’ he said. ‘But now the sheriff knows my
name, and I cannot go back to Locksley House. Wait 
for me, my love. King Richard will come back to England - he will hear
about the greedy sheriff and his friends. But now I will be Robin Hood
of Sherwood Forest and not Robin of Locksley. I will never hurt a
woman, a child or a poor man. But rich and greedy men will be afraid to
walk near my forest home!’ After the fight in the abbey, the Sheriff of Nottingham asked Prince
John for Robin Fitzooth's lands. The prince sold them to him for a lot of
money in gold. The greedy sheriff, of course, wanted to get the money
back again as fast as possible. So his poor villagers had to pay the
sheriff more money than before. The villagers on Robin's land also had
to pay. Their new lord, the sheriff, was a very hard man.
One of these villages was Farnsfield. It was very close to Sherwood,
and the villagers often went into the forest. There they caught small
animals and birds for their dinner. On their first visit to Farnsfield, the
sheriff and his men took money and food. They also found an old man
in the forest, with a dead deer on his back.
That evening, the sheriff called all the villagers. Then his men
brought out the old man and the dead deer.
‘Listen well!’ said the sheriff loudly. ‘You know that the deer in the
forest are the king's deer. The king and his lords can catch and kill them
— you cannot. This evening, I will help you to remember that!’
The sheriff looked at the villagers and smiled. Nobody spoke. Then
he turned to the old man.
‘What is your name, old man ?’ asked the sheriff, coldly.
‘I ... I ... I am Much the forester, My Lord,’ answered the man, very
afraid. ‘Well, Much the forester,’ said the sheriff. ‘You killed a king's deer.
How much are you going to pay me for it?’
‘My Lord, you know that I cannot give you anything!’ said poor
Much. ‘You ... you took our money ... and our food. I found the deer, but
it was dead. I didn't kill it!’
‘I am not interested in your stories, old man,’ said the sheriff. ‘You
cannot pay me any money? Very well, then you will have to pay with
your life!’
He turned to one of his men. ‘Kill this robber,’ he said, ‘and pull
down his home! This will be a lesson for the villagers of Farnsfield!’
The sheriff's man took out his sword, and pulled back Much's head.
The villagers could not help the old forester because they were afraid.
But Much called out, ‘No! Kill me, but please do not pull down my
house! It is my son's home, too, and he did not hurt you. He did not take
the deer. Wait, please ...!’ Much turned his eyes to the forest. ‘Oh, Robin
Hood,’ he thought, ‘where are you now ? Only you can help me.’
‘So you have a son ?’ said the sheriff's man. ‘Well, he can stay in
your house when we pull it down!’
He laughed loudly, but the sheriff looked more carefully at the
forester.
‘Wait!’ he called. ‘I think this man knows something! Old man, why
are you looking into the forest? Do you think that Robin Hood will help
you? Do you know something about him? Tell me, and perhaps I will
not kill you!’
‘I can take you to Robin Hood!’ said Much quickly. ‘I can take you to
his home in the forest. It is this way! Follow me!’
The sheriff's man took his hands away, and Much began to move
slowly to the forest. Then he suddenly ran as fast as he could.
‘Catch him!’ shouted the sheriff.
Much was nearly inside the forest now, but the sheriff's fighters
quickly took out their bows. Three arrows hit him, and Much fell to the
ground. His open eyes looked up at the sky. ‘I said “catch him”, not “kill him”,’ said the sheriff angrily. ‘Now the
man is dead, he cannot tell us anything.’ He looked at the villagers
again. ‘Perhaps one of you can tell me the way through the forest to the
robber's home ? I will pay you well!’
But nobody told the sheriff about Robin Hood.
The sheriff was now very angry.
‘There is nothing more for us here,’ he said to his men. ‘Pull down
the forester's house, and we will go.’
He turned one last time to the villagers. ‘The next man with a deer
will die too - but not as quickly. Remember that!’
Later in the evening, the villagers carried Much into the centre of the
village. The forester's young son stood outside his father's house. There
was nothing there now.
‘We are very sorry,’ the villagers said to the boy. ‘We could not do
anything. Do not be too sad — your father died bravely!’
Then a small man with a bow and arrows on his back walked quietly
into the village.
‘It is Will Scarlet, Robin Hood's man!’ said the villagers.
Will Scarlet put down his bow, and put his hand on the boy's head.
‘Robin knows that the sheriff was here,’ he said. ‘He sent me to help,
but I am too late! Who was this man ? Was he your father?’
‘Yes, he was my father,’ answered the young boy sadly. ‘Now I have
no family - and no home!’ He turned to Will Scarlet. ‘Oh, please,’ he
cried, ‘take me with you! My father taught me a lot about the forest. You
can teach me to be a fighter too! I want to be Robin Hood's man. I want
to fight the sheriff - and Prince John too.’
‘You are very young,’ said Will. ‘When you are older, perhaps...’
‘I am not young, I am fourteen,’ said the boy. ‘I am small, but I am
strong. I learn quickly. I have nothing here. Please take me with you.’ And so Will Scarlet took young Much to Robin Hood.
That year, many young men came to the forest. They all had stories
about the sheriff and his men. Robin and Will Scarlet taught them to use
a sword and a bow and arrow. But Much, the forester's son, was always
one of the best and bravest of Robin's men. Chapter 5 Robin Hood Meets Little John
Our drink is strong, our food is good Come
in and drink with, Robin Hood. When
Robin Hood is not at home Come in and
drink with Little John. (An old drinking
song)
In the first weeks and months after the fight in the abbey, Robin and his
men worked very hard. They cut down young trees and built homes in
the centre of the forest. They made arrows from wood and caught forest
deer for their food. They bought bread and milk from the villagers.
Sometimes Robin liked to leave his men, and look for adventure. One
fine autumn morning, he and his friend Will Scarlet woke early.
‘It is a beautiful day,’ said Robin. ‘I think I will go for a walk to the
river. Will you come with me?’
‘I. want to make some new arrows for my bow,’ answered Will. ‘But
I will meet you at lunch time near the bridge.’
So Robin left Will and walked quickly through the forest to the river
and the little bridge. Robin stood in the middle of the bridge, and looked
up at the trees.
‘The autumn colours are beautiful,’ he thought. Then he looked down
at the water. ‘I will catch a fish for our lunch,’ he thought. ‘Will and I
can make a fire. I have some bread, and there is fruit on the trees. We will eat very well. Ah, this is a wonderful
life!’
Suddenly somebody behind him said, ‘Well, little man! Are you
going to stand there all day? Get out of my way!’
Robin turned. The speaker was a big man, nearly two metres tall.
‘Now this will be an interesting adventure,’ he thought. ‘That man is
very strong. Can I fight him - and win ?’ He did not move from the
bridge.
‘I arrived here first,’ he called to the big man, ‘so you will have to
wait. I think I am going to do some fishing. Then, perhaps, I will get out
of your way’
The big man moved onto the bridge.
‘I will not wait!’ he said. ‘And you are not going to fish, you are
going to fight!’
They fought there, in the middle of the bridge. Robin couldn't win.
He knew that after a minute or two. The man wasn't very fast but he was
very strong. So Robin quickly thought of a plan.
He looked over the top of the big man's head, and shouted, ‘Look,
the sheriff's men!’
The big man turned and looked. Robin quickly kicked the man's legs
as hard as he could. The big man was very angry — but he didn't fall. He
kicked Robin, and Robin fell off the bridge into the water.
The big man laughed.
‘I won the fight,’ he said. ‘Come, I will help you.’
He looked over the bridge into the water. But Robin was not there.
‘Where are you?’ called the man. ‘Are you all right?’
Robin suddenly came up from the water. He was a long way from the
bridge.
‘Perhaps you won the fight,’ laughed Robin, ‘but you did not catch
me!’
He began to climb onto dry ground. Then Will Scarlet arrived. ‘What happened, Robin?’ he called. ‘Did this man throw you in
the water? He will have to fight me now!’
‘No! No!' laughed Robin. ‘Let's be friends. So what is your
name, friend? And what are you doing in my forest?’
‘Your forest?’ answered the big man. ‘It is not your forest! I
came here to find brave Robin Hood. But first, I think, I will throw
you in the river again!’
‘Friend,' said Robin, ‘you found Robin Hood, and threw him in
the water. Please, don't do it again!’
‘What! Are you really Robin Hood?’ asked the man. ‘I am very
happy about that. My name is John Little and I want to be one of
your men.’
Robin laughed. ‘ “Little” is a good name for you, because you
are very small - only the size of a small tree! We will always call
you our “little” John. Come to our forest home, Little John!’
Chapter 6 Robin Hood Helps Sir Richard of Lee
Autumn went and winter came. One cold but sunny day in January,
a man came slowly over the Great North Road on an old horse. The
snow on the forest trees shone in the winter sunshine. But the man
did not look at the forest. He looked only at the road in front of
him.
‘It is a beautiful morning,’ he heard suddenly. ‘Why are you so
sad ?’
Will Scarlet came out of the forest and stood in the middle of the
road. The man looked up.
‘Who are you ?’ he asked.
‘My name is Will Scarlet,’ said Will, ‘and I am Robin Hood's
man. Are you afraid ?’
‘No, I am not afraid,’ said the man. ‘I know that Robin Hood
helps poor people. But he cannot help me.’ Will Scarlet laughed.
‘Perhaps we can help you, and perhaps we can't. Robin Hood
and his men love dangerous adventures. Come and eat with us! Tell
us your problems!’
So Will Scarlet took the man to Robin Hood. First, they gave
him food and drink. He was very hungry.
‘You eat well in your forest home,’ said the man. ‘You eat as
well as the King - perhaps better! Thank you for this good food.’
Then he stood up.
‘Wait,’ said Robin. ‘Can't you pay us something for your
dinner? With a little gold I can help many poor families.’
The man did not answer for some time.
Then he said, ‘I have gold in my bags - six hundred pounds! But
I cannot give it to you. I am going to St Mary's Abbey. This money
is for the abbot.’
‘That is a lot of money,’ said Will, ‘and the church has too
much gold.’
‘That is my problem,’ said the man. ‘The abbot wants more -five
hundred pounds more — and I cannot pay him this year. Perhaps
he will wait another year, but I think not. I think that he will ask for
my lands - and my home too.’
‘Yes,’ said Robin, ‘the abbot is a greedy man. Tell us your
name, friend, and tell us your story too. Perhaps we can help.’
So the man told his story. His name was Richard of Lee, and his
son killed a man in a fight. The man died, and the Sheriff of
Nottingham's men took the boy away.
‘Ah, the sheriff,’ said Robin. ‘Another greedy man! Did he ask
for money ?’
‘You know him well,’ answered Richard of Lee. ‘He said, “Pay
me one thousand pounds or your son will die!” I am not a rich man,
but the Abbot of St Mary's paid the money for me. This happened
last year. Now I have to pay the abbot. He wants 
one thousand, one hundred pounds - and I can only give him six
hundred.’
Robin laughed. ‘I can give you the money. But first, let's try
something ... perhaps the good abbot is not a bad man. Tell him
that you do not have the money. Ask him to help you. Ask him to
wait another year!’
Then Robin turned to his men.
‘Who will go with this man and listen to the abbot's answer?’
‘I will go with him,’ said Little John. ‘I am ready for an
adventure!’Chapter 7 Sir Richard Pays the Abbot
At twelve o'clock the next day, the Abbot of St Mary's was in his
great dining room. On the table there were bags of gold. He went
to the window and looked out.
‘Sir Richard of Lee is here at the right time, I see,’ he thought.
‘But his clothes are poor, and his horse is old. Good! I think my
friend, the sheriff, is right. Sir Richard cannot pay my one
thousand, one hundred pounds. So this evening, I will be Lord of
his house and his lands!’
A few minutes later, Sir Richard and Little John came into the
room.
‘Well,’ said the abbot, 'you are here at the right time. Do you
have my money ?’
‘My Lord Abbot,’ Sir Richard began, ‘you are a church man. I
hope you will be kind. Next year ...’
‘Stop!’ shouted the abbot. ‘Do not ask for more time! I want my
money now Pay me the one thousand, one hundred pounds, or your
house and lands will be mine this evening!’
Sir Richard then put six bags of gold on the abbot's table. ‘Here
are six hundred pounds, My Lord,’ he said quietly. ‘There 
is one hundred in each bag. It is a lot of money for me. Next year
I hope ...’
‘Not next year, or next month, or next week!’ shouted the abbot
again. ‘I want all my money today! Do you have my gold -yes or no?’
Then Little John put five more bags on the table.
‘Here you are, My Lord,’ he said. ‘Five hundred more pounds. This
good man and his family will sleep in their home tonight.’
The abbot looked at the money, then he looked at Little John. The
abbot's face was very red. He opened his mouth and then closed it again.
What could he say?
Later, in the forest, Little John told the story to Robin Hood and the
other men.
‘The abbot's face was wonderful,’ said Little John. ‘He was angry,
but he had to take the money’
They laughed for a long time, but then Robin said,
‘This was a fine adventure. But the abbot will tell the sheriff, and the
sheriff will also be angry. They are dangerous men. Sir Richard has to
be careful.’ Chapter 8
Lady Marian and the Sheriff of Nottingham
Every year in summer, Marian's father had a great party. Lords and
ladies and the people from the villages came. They ate and drank. This
year, the Sheriff of Nottingham came too, with fifty of his men. He
watched Marian carefully.
‘She is very beautiful,’ he thought, ‘and Robin Hood loves her. I
know he will come today. Then my men can catch him.’
The music started and people began to dance. A man went to Marian
and spoke to her. She smiled and gave him her hand.
The sheriff stood up and called loudly to his men, ‘That's him! That's
Robin Hood! Take him!’ The sheriff's men took out their swords and moved through the dancers.
Suddenly ten of the dancers ran for their swords too. They were, of course,
Robin's men, and a great fight began. Robin's men were better fighters than
the sheriff's. Marian wanted to fight too, but her father stopped her.
‘Marian, what are you doing? Put down that sword! I am sorry about
Robin — no other man will marry you. You are only interested in fighting!’
The sheriff heard Marian's father and smiled.
‘Lady Marian is really very lovely,’ he thought. ‘Her father wants to find
another husband for her? Good. I will marry her, then she will help me find
Robin Hood.’Chapter 9 The Sheriff's Visit
The next day, the sheriff arrived at Lord Fitzwalter's house with twenty
horsemen. Lord Fitzwalter watched them through a window. He was not
happy.
‘He wants to talk about yesterday's fight,’ he said to his daughter, ‘and
you nearly fought too! Please go to your room. I will speak to him.’
‘I do not want to speak to the sheriff, father,’ said Marian, ‘but I will
listen behind the door!’
Marian left the room, and a minute later, the sheriff walked in.
‘My Lord Sheriff,’ began Lord Fitzwalter, ‘I am sorry about the fight
yesterday, but your men…’
‘No, no, I do not want to talk about that,’ said the sheriff. He put his
hand on Lord Fitzwalter's arm and smiled. ‘I want to speak to you about
your daughter, the Lady Marian.’
‘Ah, Marian,’ said Lord Fitzwalter unhappily. ‘Marian is a good girl but
she does not always listen to me. Perhaps one day a husband will...’ ‘Ah yes!’ said the sheriff and smiled. ‘Well, I am looking for a wife,
and I would like to marry your daughter. I like a strong woman - and
Marian is also very beautiful. I will be a good husband. I have lands,
money - and important friends.’
‘My Lord, what can I say?’ said Marian's father. He was now
very unhappy. Marian wanted to marry Robin and no other
man - he knew that. ‘You are very kind. I will talk to Marian
but...’
‘I will come back tomorrow,’ said the sheriff. ‘Remember -Prince
John is my very good friend. He can be your friend too. Think
carefully!’ That evening, Marian and her father talked for a long time about Robin,
the sheriff and Prince John.
‘Marian, why don't you marry the sheriff?’ said her father. ‘He is
rich and important, and he is a friend of Prince John. I am afraid of the
prince. Please marry the sheriff, and forget Robin Fitzooth.’
Marian took her father's hand. ‘Father, I am sorry to bring you so
many problems. I will not marry the sheriff, but he will be angry with
me, not you. Listen. Tomorrow I will leave the house very early and
stay with my uncle. The sheriff will come late in the morning. Tell your
men to look for me. Look in every room. Be very angry. Then the
sheriff will think that you know nothing!’
‘You are right, Marian,’ said her father. ‘You will have to marry the
sheriff or leave here. Go then to my brother's house. But who will go
with you?’
‘Good Friar Tuck is staying here tonight,’ answered Marian. ‘He will
help me.’
‘That fat churchman ?’ said her father. ‘He is a strange friar. He
fights too well for a churchman. People say that the Abbot of St Mary's
hates him. The friar had to leave the abbey.’ ‘Friar Tuck does not like the abbot because the abbot takes a lot of
money from the villagers,’ answered Marian. ‘Friar Tuck says that the
church has to help poor people.’
‘Mm,’ said her father.! ‘The abbot does live very well. He is a greedy
man. Friar Tuck is greedy too - he eats more than ten men! But he is a
brave man and very strong. Yes, take Friar Tuck with you.’
Chapter 10 Marian Goes to Sherwood Forest
Very early next morning, Marian put on boy's clothes and a boy's hat
and woke up Friar Tuck. The friar took his staff and Marian took her
bow and arrows. Then they left the house and walked on the Great North
Road through the forest.
After some hours, the friar suddenly left the road and sat down under
a tree.
‘Please let's stop, My Lady,’ he said. ‘We had no breakfast and I am
very hungry!’
Marian laughed.
‘I am sorry, Friar Tuck,’ she said, ‘You are right, we will eat now.
Stay here. I will take your staff and my bow and arrow, and catch some
animals. "We can cook them here in the forest.’
Marian left the friar and moved quietly between the forest trees. She
saw a deer. Very quietly, she took out an arrow and put it to her bow.
‘Stop there, boy!’ said a man behind her. The man spoke very loudly.
The deer jumped at the noise and ran away into the trees. Marian was
very angry. She turned to the speaker but he wore a big hood. She
couldn't see his face.
‘Well, boy,’ said the man. ‘Don't you know that you cannot eat the
king's deer? The Sheriff of Nottingham killed two men last week
because they caught a deer.’‘I am not afraid of the sheriff,’ said Marian, ‘or of you. Leave now
- or fight!’
‘Fight with you?’ the man laughed. ‘But you are only a boy! Well,
you have a staff and I have one too. I will fight with you -with one
hand!’
Marian fought well. She was strong and quick. With only one
hand, the man could not win. She hit him again and again on his head
and across his back.
‘Stop, stop!’ he laughed. ‘You are young, but you are a good
fighter.’ He threw back his hood. ‘I am Robin Hood. Will you come
with me, and be one of my men?’
‘Robin!’ said Marian, and threw back her hood too. Her lovely red
hair fell down her back.
‘Marian!’ answered Robin. ‘What are you doing here, in the forest
? Is nobody with you ?’
‘I am with a friend, Friar Tuck,’ said Marian, ‘and he is very
hungry! The deer was for him. But I think that he will be happy to eat
at Robin Hood's table.’
She and Robin went back to the road and looked for Friar Tuck.
They called his name but there was no answer.
‘Poor man!’ said Marian. ‘Perhaps he is looking for me. Perhaps
he thinks that the sheriff's men caught me!’
Then she told Robin about her father and the sheriff.
‘I cannot go home now, Robin,’ she said. ‘I want to be with you
here, in Sherwood Forest. Friar Tuck will marry us. Let's find him.
Perhaps he will want to live with us.’
Chapter 11 Robin Hood and Friar Tuck
They did not find Friar Tuck that day, so Marian stayed with her uncle.
She came each day to the forest.
‘Another friar lives at my uncle's home,’ she told Robin, ‘but he is
a weak man. He doesn't want to marry us because he is afraid. And the sheriff will find me at my uncle's house. Oh, where is
Friar Tuck? Only he can help us.’Then one day, about a month after the fight between Marian and Robin,
Will Scarlet told them an interesting story.
‘People in the village of River Dale are talking about a fat friar,’ he
said. ‘They say he came to the village last month. Now he lives near the
river. For one penny, he will take people across the river in his boat.
When poor people cannot pay, he carries them across on his back!
People say he loves good food and a good fight. He is a very strange
friar, I think.’
‘And I think that man is Friar Tuck,’ laughed Marian. ‘Robin, please
go to River Dale and bring him back with you.’
Robin and Will Scarlet walked with Marian to her uncle's house and
then went back through the forest to the village of River Dale.
‘Wait here, Will,’ said Robin. ‘Marian says the friar is a strong man
and very brave. I'd like to try him!’
Robin then walked to the river and looked across it. He saw the friar's
little house, and his boat.
‘Good friar,’ he called, ‘where are you ? Will you take me in your
boat? I have some money and I can pay you well.’
Friar Tuck came out of the house and got into the boat. He came
quickly across the river.
‘Show me your money first,’ said the friar. ‘Then you can get in.’
He jumped from the boat to dry ground and held out his hand. Robin
gave him a penny and walked to the boat. But he didn't get in. He pushed
the boat and it moved slowly away, down the river.
‘You stupid man! What are you doing?’ shouted Friar Tuck.
Robin took out his sword. 
‘Now we have no boat, friar,’ he said. ‘Carry me across the river on
your back and perhaps I will not kill you!’
The friar said nothing. He looked at Robin's sword and then walked
into the water. Robin climbed onto his back and they went slowly to the
middle of the river. Then the friar suddenly stopped, stood up, and threw
Robin into the water.
Friar Tuck could swim more quickly than Robin. He got out of the
river and called,
‘Come here, friend, and fight with me. I do not have a sword because
I am a churchman. And I can kill a man with my two hands!’
Then Will Scarlet came out of the forest with ten of Robin's men.
‘Robin, are you hurt ?’ he called. Robin climbed out of the river.
‘What are you going to do now, friar?’ said Robin. ‘Will you
fight us ?’
Friar Tuck did not answer him. He called loudly, ‘Hunter! Biter!
Here, my boys!’
Two great dogs came out of the forest.
‘My two dogs and I are ready to fight you!’ said Friar Tuck. ‘But tell
me first, are you Robin Hood?’
‘I am,’ said Robin. ‘Lady Marian sent me. She is right - you are a
good fighter! Will you come and live in the forest? Will you be our
friar?’
The next day, Friar Tuck married Robin and Marian in the little
church of River Dale. Then he left his house by the river. Now he was
one of Robin's men. 
